Native Facebook Login documentation (#8592)
auth0/docs: articles/connections/nativesocial/facebook.md

---
title: Add Facebook Login to Native Apps
description: Learn how to add login functionality to your native app with Facebook. 
topics:
  - authentication
  - connections
  - social
  - facebook
contentType: how-to
useCase:
  - add-login
  - customize-connections
  - add-idp
---
# Add Facebook Login to Native Apps

> You can add functionality to your native application to allow your users to authenticate using Facebook natively, within the application. This does not require redirection via a web browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can add functionality to your native application to allow your users to authenticate using Facebook natively, within the application. This does not require redirection via a web browser and will let mobile applications comply with [Facebook Developer Policy](https://developers.facebook.com/policy/) which requires that mobile applications use their SDK to authenticate.
```

## How it works

The Native Facebook login flow works as follows:

* **Step 1**: The application authenticates a user via the Facebook SDK and acquires an Access Token.
* **Step 2**: The application uses that Access Token to request a special [Facebook Session Info Access Token](https://developers.facebook.com/docs/facebook-login/access-tokens/session-info-access-token).

> * **Step 3**: The application can then use the Facebook Session Info token to request a user profile from Auth0.

Reviewer: Step 3: Use the Facebook SDK to retrieve the users's profile
Step 4: The application can then use the Facebook Session Info token to authenticate with Auth0.

## Prerequisites

Before you configure Native Facebook login for your native app via Auth0, you must:

1. [Set up your application](/connections/social/facebook) with Facebook and as an Auth0 connection
1. [Use the relevant Facebook SDK in your application](https://developers.facebook.com/docs/apis-and-sdks/)
1. Create an application with Auth0 (if you have not already) and enable the Sign in with Facebook option in the [Dashboard > (Your Application) > Settings > Advanced Settings > Device Settings](${manage_url}).
  ![Native Social Login Settings](/media/articles/connections/nativesocial/native-social-login.png)
1. Follow the implementation details below

## Implementation details

### Setup in your application

> As above, the process to acquire a user profile from Auth0 using Native Facebook login is a three step one, from your application's perspective:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As above, the process to authenticate  a user profile using Native Facebook login is a four-step one, from your application's perspective:
```

* **Step 1**: The application authenticates a user via the Facebook SDK. It will obtain an Access Token from Facebook, and will now need to request the user profile.
* **Step 2**: The application uses the Access Token to request a [Facebook Session Info Access Token](https://developers.facebook.com/docs/facebook-login/access-tokens/session-info-access-token).

This request will look similar to the following:

```
GET https://graph.facebook.com/v5.0/oauth/access_token?
grant_type=fb_attenuate_token&
client_id=457704041391802&
fb_exchange_token=<facebook_access_token>
```

and the response:

```json
{
    "access_token": "XAAGgR4b...1lHWNCpqrAhcpoAZDZD",
    "token_type": "bearer",
    "expires_in": 5183924
}
```

> * **Step 3**: The application can then use this token to request a user profile from Auth0 by calling Auth0’s `/oauth/token` endpoint using the [client credentials exchange flow](/flows/concepts/client-credentials), with the `facebook-session-access-token` token type. If all goes well, Auth0 will return a normal response from the exchange, with the addition of the user profile.

Reviewer: **Step 3**: The application needs to retrieve the user profile from Facebook using the SDK, which will end in a request similar to the following:
```
GET https://graph.facebook.com/v5.0/<facebook user id>?access_token=<facebook access token>&fields=email,name 
```
**Step 4**: The application can then use the session info access token and the facebook user profile to authenticate with Auth0 by calling Auth0’s `/oauth/token` endpoint using the Token Exchange flow with the `facebook-session-access-token` token type. If all goes well, Auth0 will return a normal response from the exchange, with the addition of the user profile.

```
POST https://${account.namespace}/oauth/token

grant_type: 'urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:token-exchange'
subject_token_type: 'http://auth0.com/oauth/token-type/facebook-session-access-token'
audience: 'your-api'
scope: 'read:appointments openid profile email email_verified'
subject_token: 'XAAGgR4b...1lHWNCpqrUHZAEtUuZAhcpoAZDZD'
client_id: '${account.clientID}'
user_profile: '{"email":"john@example.com", "Name":"John Doe"}'
```

and the response from Auth0:

```json
{
    "access_token": "eyJ0eXA..yXQaPLVXg",
    "id_token": "eyJ0.tFE5HPipdOsA",
    "scope": "openid profile email read:appointments",
    "expires_in": 86400,
    "token_type": "Bearer"
}
```

::: note

> Auth0 will return the user profile as part of the Client Credentials Exchange payload. This is because the Facebook Session Access Token cannot be used to directly retrieve the profile, and the Facebook access token cannot be sent directly to the server, because of Apple’s policies. Therefore, it must be retrieved in the client and sent to Auth0 in this fashion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Auth0 needs the user profile as part of the Token Exchange payload. This is because the Facebook Session Access Token cannot be used to directly retrieve the profile, and the Facebook access token cannot be sent directly to the server, because of Apple’s policies. Therefore, it must be retrieved in the client and sent to Auth0 in this fashion.
```

:::

> ### How Auth0 interacts with Facebook

Reviewer: We don't need to explain this in the public docs

This request will look similar to the following:

```
GET https://graph.facebook.com/v5.0/oauth/access_token?
grant_type=fb_attenuate_token&
client_id=457704041391802&
fb_exchange_token=<facebook_access_token>
```

and the response:

```json
{
    "access_token": "XAAGgR4b...1lHWNCpqrAhcpoAZDZD",
    "token_type": "bearer",
    "expires_in": 5183924
}
```

### Step 3

The application needs to retrieve the user profile from Facebook using the Facebook SDK, which will end in a request similar to the following:

```
GET https://graph.facebook.com/v5.0/<facebook user id>?access_token=<facebook access token>&fields=email,name 
```

### Step 4

The application can then use the session info Access Token and the Facebook user profile to authenticate with Auth0 by calling Auth0's `/oauth/token` endpoint using the Token Exchange flow with the `facebook-session-access-token` token type. If all goes well, Auth0 will return a normal response from the exchange, with the addition of the user profile.

```
POST https://${account.namespace}/oauth/token

grant_type: 'urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:token-exchange'

> subject_token_type: 'http://auth0.com/oauth/token-type/facebook-session-access-token'

Reviewer 2: This should be:

```suggestion
subject_token_type: 'http://auth0.com/oauth/token-type/facebook-info-session-access-token'
```

audience: 'your-api'
scope: 'read:appointments openid profile email email_verified'
subject_token: 'XAAGgR4b...1lHWNCpqrUHZAEtUuZAhcpoAZDZD'
client_id: '${account.clientID}'

> user_profile: '{"email":"john@example.com", "Name":"John Doe"}'

Reviewer 2: Would be great to point out that the this should be a json object, encoded as a string.

}
```

## User Profile and Email Validation

> In the previous example you had to retrieve the User Profile from Facebook and include it in the call to `/oauth/token`. This is because the Facebook Session Access Token cannot be used to directly retrieve the profile, and the Facebook Access Token cannot be sent directly to the server, because of [Apple's AppStore Review Guidelines](https://developer.apple.com/app-store/review/guidelines) policies. Therefore, it must be retrieved in the client and sent to Auth0 in this fashion.

Author: ```suggestion
In the previous example, you had to retrieve the User Profile from Facebook and include it in the call to `/oauth/token`. This is because the Facebook Session Access Token cannot be used to directly retrieve the profile, and the Facebook Access Token cannot be sent directly to the server, due to [Apple's AppStore Review Guidelines](https://developer.apple.com/app-store/review/guidelines). Therefore, it must be retrieved in the client and sent to Auth0 in this fashion.
```
